Pokemon Legends: Arceus feature new Pokemon evolutions and new Hisuian regional forms. Read more about all new Pokemon found in the Pokemon Legends: Arceus' Hisui region below, including how to get every new Pokemon. Also make sure to check out the Pokedex (List of Pokemon) to see every Pokemon in Legends: Arceus and the new Starter Pokemon Evolutions, specifically.

See images of every new Pokemon in Legends: Arceus. SPOILER WARNING!
There are more new Pokemon at the end of this page, but are extra spoilery. Proceed at your own risk. 

SEE EVERY NEW POKEMON'S ANIMATION IN THE VIDEO BELOW
See How to Evolve Stantler into Wyrdeer to learn how to get Wyrdeer. Wyrdeer is an evolution of the Normal-type Stantler, which isn't known to evolve when found in the Johto region. It does evolve into the Normal- and Psychic-type Wyrdeer in the Hisui region after experiencing the harsh, cold conditions there. Wyrdeer generates immense psychic energy from the black orbs of its antlers, and it's greatly revered by the Hisui people. 


Basculin's White-Striped Form is unique to the Hisui Region. You can catch it in Cobalt Coastlands and other areas in the water. Its appearance when it evolves depends on its gender.


Not all Basculin can make the journey upstream in Hisui, and when they perish, they possess a living schoolmate, causing it to evolve into the Water- and Ghost-type Basculegion. The souls of its fallen brethren empower this nearly 10-foot-long Big Fish Pokemon, allowing it to swim endlessly without tiring. 

Male Form


See How to Evolve Scyther into Kleavor to learn how to get Kleavor in Pokemon Legends: Arceus. 

In the Hisui region, Scyther acquires the Rock-type in this special evolution. This Axe Pokemon has incredible slicing power, stands 5'11" tall, and weighs 196.2 pounds. It carves symbols into tree trunks or even chops them down to mark its territory. If you see crisscross patterns marked in trees, be on the lookout for Kleavor. 


See How to Evolve Ursaring into Ursaluna to learn how to get Ursaluna.


You can find the Poison- and Fighting-type Hisuian Sneasel in Coronet Highlands.


Evolve Hisuian Sneasel into Sneasler by giving it a Razor Claw during the day.


Find Hisuian Qwilfish in the Cobalt Coastlands.


To evolve Hisuian Qwilfish into Overqwil, you must use its signature move, Barb Barrage, 20 times in the strong style.


The following are new forms of existing Pokemon found only in Hisui. 

Catch Hisuian Voltorb at Coronet HighlandsLike the Electric- and Steel-type Voltorb from the Kanto Region, Hisuian Voltorb resemble the Poke Balls of Hisui. Hisuian Voltorb appear happy and jovial all the time, but it discharges electricity when it gets too excited. This makes it a bit of a nuisance to people and Pokemon alike. 


To get a Hisuian Electrode, you must catch a Hisuian Voltorb at Coronet Highlands and give it a Leaf Stone.


Find Hisuian Zorua in the ice caves of the Bonechill Wastes in Alabaster Icelands. (See the video above for the exact location). Hisuian Zorua is a Normal and Ghost-type "Spiteful Fox" Pokemon. These Pokemon fled to the Hisui region from fearful humans, but were unable to survive the harsh environment. They were reborn into their Ghost- and Normal-type Hisui form out of pure spite and malice.


Evolve Hisuian Zorua, or Tap to RevealThe Trial of Lake Acuity.Hisuian Zoroark, like its pre-evolution, Hisuian Zorua, is also a Normal- and Ghost-type Pokemon. It's considered a "Baneful Fox" Pokemon. Its illusions are so powerful they can inflict physical damage - and may even cause those who see them to become mad.


Find Hisuian Growlithe in the Cobalt Coastlands on the cliff.

Growlithe in the Hisui region have thicker, fluffier fur than their Kanto counterparts in order to survive the frigid environment. Hisuian Growlithe are both Fire- and Rock-type, with the horn on its head made out of stone. 


Evolve Hisuian Growlithe with a Fire Stone.


Get Hisuian Braviary by catching a Rufflet in the Alabaster Icelands and leveling it up to 50.The Braviary in the Hisui region begin as normal Rufflet, but when they evolve, become Flying- and Psychic-type Hisuian Braviary which are larger than usual. Its screeches are imbued with psychic energy and greatly weaken its prey. This Battle Cry Pokemon, though only 95.6lbs, can carry around people through the sky.  


Hisuian Sliggoo evolves from regular Goomy, caught in the Coronet Highlands. 


Like the familiar Sliggoo, Hisuian Sliggoo evolves into Hisuian Goodra when it's at least 50 as long as it's in the rain.


Give Petalil a Sun Stone to get a Hisuian Liligant.


Oshawott's, a Starter Pokemon's, final evolution. Catch more Oshawott in Space-time Distortions in Alabaster Icelands.


Cyndaquil's, a Starter Pokemon's, final evolution.Catch more Cyndaquil in Space-time Distortions in Crimson Mirelands.


Rowlet's, a Starter Pokemon's, final evolution. Catch more Rowlet in Space-time Distortions in Coronet Highlands.



These are the new Legendary Pokemon and new Legendary Pokemon formes in Pokemon Legends: Arceus. You must reach the end of the Main Story Missions to earn these. More information coming soon! 

Catch Enamorus by completing main mission #25 then complete request #94 to a certain point, then find it in Crimson Mirelands' Scarlet Bog.


Get Palkia by completing the final two main missions: Atop Mount Coronet  and/or The Counterpart. Then, complete request 89: The Diamond Clan’s Treasure to be able to change its form.


Get Palkia by completing final two main missions: Atop Mount Coronet  and/or The Counterpart
Then, complete Request 90: The Pearl Clan’s Treasure to be able to change its form.


Was this guide helpful?
