Pokemon Legends: Arceus' new Ver. 1.1.0 Daybreak Update introduced a new phenomenon called Massive Mass Outbreaks. This guide covers how to unlock Massive Mass Outbreaks in Pokemon Legends: Arceus with additional information and details on how they work, and how they're different from normal mass outbreaks. 


Massive Mass Outbreaks were introduced to Pokemon Legends: Arceus with the Daybreak update on February 28, 2022. However, there's more you need to do besides just update your game in order to start triggering Massive Mass Outbreaks. Here's how to unlock Massive Mass Outbreaks, step by step: 
The series of requests from 95 to 101 with Mai will task you with investigating three outbreaks in each area and teach you techniques about them along the way. Here are some tips:

5. Catching all the Pokemon is much faster than defeating them. Take advantage of the Request rewards and craft Ultra Balls.

Massive Mass Outbreaks are an iteration on the usual Mass Outbreaks. Instead of just one specific Pokemon amassing, multiple hordes on a map will appear all at once. 


However, these outbreaks only last for a limited time as long as the rainstorm (or blizzard, in the Alabaster Icelands), persists. You won't be able to visit every single spot before time runs out, so look at the map and choose which ones you want to see. Massive Mass Outbreaks are a great way to catch and complete Pokedex Research Tasks for rare Pokemon. 


Once you have fully unlocked Massive Mass Outbreaks, which is detailed at the beginning of this page, they become somewhat random but are tied to the weather.  You can wait for a rainstorm (or blizzard) to kick up at camp at the location of your choice by resting at the tent. Or, if you're less picky about which map, you can move to and from Jubilife Village until one appears. The guard will tell you if one appears. Look for the blue question mark icon on the map to signal there's a Massive Mass Outbreak. Once the storm ends, so too will the Massive Mass Outbreak. 


If you do Request 96, you will unlock the ability to see what Pokemon are in each Massive Mass Outbreak on the map. After traveling to the map with the Massive Mass Outbreak, speak to Mai and give Munchlax 5 Aguav Berries. This will reveal all Pokemon, and any special icons, available in the Massive Mass Outbreak. 


Was this guide helpful?
