This GTA: San Andreas guide details everything you need to know about cheat codes, as well as how to activate them, a guide to the best cheats to test out, as well as a complete list of all working cheats and codes that are available and ready to use. This guide includes an updated cheats list for the GTA: The Trilogy - Definitive Edition release for Xbox, PC, and PS5.

Please note, with nearly 100 cheats and secrets available in GTA San Andreas, these cheats can all be used and activated across every platform, including PS5, PS4, PS3, PS2, Xbox Series X, Xbox One, Xbox 360, Nintendo Switch, and PC. 

Looking for a particular cheat code in GTA San Andreas? Click the links below to jump to...

Also check out...

In order to enter and activate cheat codes in GTA San Andreas, you must first select the cheat code you are looking to enter. With almost 100 cheats available on offer, you'll find cheats that range from infinite ammo, disabling your wanted level, infinite health, item and vehicle spawns, as well as plenty more.

Once you have selected your desired cheat code, simply type the phrase on your PC keyboard or press the button combinations on your console controller while playing the game. These will need to be added in a consecutive manner and rather quickly, if you're too slow, you'll need to re-enter the cheat code.

You will know if the cheat is successful by looking for a pop-up that will appear in the top corner of your screen, which will indicate that the cheat is now active in-game.

The lists below show all of the San Andreas cheat codes, just scroll to the console you are playing on. Note that below this section are in-depth explanations and more for each individual cheat code.

Here's a quick list of all the cheats for PS5, PS4 and other PS-like controllers. Scroll down for detailed explanations of all cheat codes.

Here's a quick list of all the cheats for PC. Scroll down for detailed explanations of all cheat codes.

Here's a quick list of all the cheats for Xbox Series X, Xbox One, and other Xbox-like controllers. Scroll down for detailed explanations of all cheat codes.

Here's a quick list of all the cheats for Nintendo Switch. Scroll down for detailed explanations of all cheat codes.

A complete list of all cheats and secrets in GTA San Andreas can be seen below.

Check out our best cheat recommendations in the list below, followed by a complete list of all GTA San Andreas cheat codes and secrets. 

The following GTA San Andreas cheat codes are some of the most useful and popular cheats in the game - not to mention the most fun. Here is a list of the best GTA San Andreas cheat codes:

Will provide CJ with Health, Armor, and $250,000.

CJ will receive unlimited ammunition. 

Makes CJ invulnerable to most damage, however, he can still be hurt by explosions, falling, drowning, and being run over.

Will spawn the following weapons: Bat, Pistol, Shotgun, Mini SMG, AK 47, Rocket Launcher, Molotov Cocktail, Spray Can, Brass Knuckles.

Will spawn the following weapons: Knife, Pistol, Sawed-Off Shotgun, Tec 9, Sniper Rifle, Flamethrower, Grenades, Fire Extinguisher.

Will spawn the following weapons: Chainsaw, Silenced Pistol, Combat Shotgun, M4, Bazooka, Plastic Explosive.

Will spawn a Rhino Tank

A Jetpack will be spawned.

Your wanted level will be cleared.

Pedestrians will begin to riot on the streets.

Below is a complete list of all Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (GTA SA) cheat codes that are available across all platforms, whether it be PS5, PS4, PS3, Xbox Series X|S, XB1, Xbox 360, PC, or Nintendo Switch. These cheat codes can be entered with a keyboard or an Xbox, PlayStation, or Nintendo Switch controller at any time during gameplay.

Looking for a particular type of cheat code? Click the links below to jump to...

Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas has several cheats that kit out CJ's arsenal, boost his health and add some extra cash to his account. Here's a complete list of the weapon, health, and money cheat codes:

Provides CJ with Health, Armor, and $250,000.

Makes CJ invulnerable to most damage, however, he can still be hurt by explosions, falling, drowning, and being run over.

Will spawn the following weapons: Bat, Pistol, Shotgun, Mini SMG, AK 47, Rocket Launcher, Molotov Cocktail, Spray Can, Brass Knuckles.

Will spawn the following weapons: Knife, Pistol, Sawed-Off Shotgun, Tec 9, Sniper Rifle, Flamethrower, Grenades, Fire Extinguisher.

Will spawn the following weapons: Chainsaw, Silenced Pistol, Combat Shotgun, M4, Bazooka, Plastic Explosive.

CJ receives unlimited ammunition. 

Some of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas' most entertaining cheats allow you to alter the game's physics and internal logic to turn Los Santos, San Fierro and Las Venturas into chaos-filled playgrounds. Here's all the gameplay cheat codes:

Your wanted level will be cleared.

Your wanted level will increase by two stars.

Lock your the wanted level.

Gives you a six-star wanted level.

Pedestrians will begin to riot on the streets.

Similar to Riot Mode. Pedestrians will fight each other in the streets.

Pedestrians will attack you.

All pedestrians will attack you with guns.

All pedestrians will carry weapons.

All pedestrians will turn into Elvis.

CJ and pedestrians will change into beach attire. 

CJ will receive a samurai sword and civilians will be replaced by members of the triad.

CJ wears a red wig and comical glasses. Pedestrians turn into clowns and fast-food mascots.

CJ will change into the rural outfit and wear a baseball cap. All pedestrians and cars will be country themed.

CJ will change into the gimp suit. Pedestrians will transform into prostitutes and pimps.

CJ will jump much higher than usual.

CJ's punches do much more damage and launch foes. Pedestrians wield the same power.

Some of the most useful cheats in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas allow CJ to spawn vehicles. Here's a complete list of spawn cheats:

Will spawn a Rhino Tank

A Jetpack will spawn

A Hydra will spawn

A Hunter will spawn.

A Stunt Plane will spawn

A Bloodring Banger will spawn

A Vortex Hovercraft will spawn

A parachute will spawn

A monster truck will spawn

The first variant of the Hotring Racer will spawn.

The second variant of the Hotring Racer will spawn.

A Romero will spawn.

A limo will spawn.

A Trashmaster will spawn.

A Caddy will spawn.

A Quad will spawn.

A Tanker Truck will spawn.

A bulldozer will spawn.

A Rancher will spawn.

Looking to buff out CJ's stats without having to grind at the gym? Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas has cheats for that too, as well as some handy (and mayhem-infused) gang-related codes. Here's a complete list of every stat and gang cheat:

Maxes out CJ's Muscle stat.

Maxes out CJ's Fat stat.

Puts both the Muscle and Fat stats to zero.

Allows CJ to sprint indefinitely. He'll also have infinite oxygen while underwater.

CJ will never get hungry.

Maxes out the Respect stat.

Maxes out the Sex Appeal stat.

Bumps all weapon stats to Hitman Level.

All pedestrians are replaced by a member of one of San Andreas' various gangs.

Pedestrians clear out of the streets, leaving only the gangs.

CJ can recruit anyone to become a follower. Equips them with a 9MM pistol.

CJ can recruit anyone to become a follower. Equips them with a rocket launcher.

Alongside some of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas' more chaotic cheats, there's also the opportunity to change small details such as the weather and time. Here are all the weather and time cheat codes:

The time is locked to midnight.

The time is locked to 21:00.

Everything moves in slow motion.

Everything moves faster.

Time moves faster

Makes the weather cloudy.

Makes the weather foggy.

Makes the weather stormy.

Makes the weather sunny.

Makes the weather very sunny.

Creates a sandstorm.

Although there's a lot of cheats for CJ's on-foot adventures, there's also plenty of codes you can utilise when he gets behind the wheel. Here are all the traffic, vehicle, boat, plane and motorcycle cheat codes:

Lets CJ aim freely while performing drive-bys from a car.

Blows up all cars in the near vicinity.

Makes all traffic lights remain green.

Makes pedestrian drivers more aggressive.

Increases the speed of cars.

All cars are equipped with the nitrous upgrade.

Makes cars fly.

All boats will be able to fly.

Cars can drive on water.

Gives cars perfect handling.

Lets CJ jump much higher while riding a bicycle.

All cars turn invisible. Motorcycles will stay visible.

Cars will fly away when hit.

There will be less traffic on the roads.

All traffic will turn pink.

All traffic will turn black.

All traffic will turn into sports cars.

All traffic will turn into junk cars.

Listed below is a complete list of how to achieve 100% Completion, along with a list of Perks and Bonuses that can be unlocked by completing a series of missions and tasks.

Complete the game 100% to generate increased money and stats, as well as to spawn the Hydra and Rhino at CJ's house in Grove Street.

You can dual-wield a variety of weapons if you reach the gun rank of "Hitman" while using them. Those weapons include the Micro-SMG, Pistol, Sawed-off Shotgun, and Tec-9.

Date the girlfriends indicated below for the indicated reward.

You can receive special outfits by dating the various girlfriends until your relationship has a rating of 100%, as outlined below.

If you date the girlfriends indicated below to a rating of 50%, you will be able to drive the corresponding vehicles.

Clear all of the missions available for a particular vehicle to unlock the corresponding reward, as indicated below.

You can sprint as much as you like if you complete the Burglary mission, which requires C.J. to steal $10,000 worth of loot.

The ratings needed to earn vehicles, and the vehicles earned are as follows (you must have at least one of those medals in all tests to qualify for the reward vehicle):

The ratings needed to earn vehicles, and the vehicles earned are as follows (you must have at least one of those medals in all tests to qualify for the reward vehicle):

The ratings needed to earn vehicles, and the vehicles earned are as follows (you must have at least one of those medals in all tests to qualify for the reward vehicle):

Head to the left of Sweet's house (and go into the back yard) in your neighborhood to find a basketball court. Pick up the ball and follow the onscreen instructions to play some hoop.

Head out behind your house in Los Santos and go down into the aqueduct. Go down the slope and head right along the walkway to locate a nice Mini SMG. You'll also find a Pistol in Sweet's backyard.

Go out behind the house and into the aqueduct to the left. Go down the sloped wall of the aqueduct and head left. On an incline underneath the bridge, you'll find a handy vest.

Anytime you kill a drug dealer, you will net $2000. Drug dealers normally wear black jackets and stand still waiting for people to talk to them. Kill as many as you can find to build up your cash stash quickly.

To earn some easy weapon skill, go and practice with an AK-47 before starting this mission until you reach Gangster level. Then while in the mission, blast on as many cop cars and bikes as possible. You'll deal out so much damage that there is a very high chance of you reaching Hitman weapon skill level.

To earn easy weapon skill, go and get any two cars and place them in your Grove St home garage. Then with the weapon of your choice shoot the cars until they are nearly on fire. Then walk away from the garage so it can close. Walk up to the garage again and you will notice that the cars are repaired. Repeat this process as it is one of the fastest ways to earn weapon skill in the game. To check your progress with weapon skill, switch to the weapon that you want to check and then go to STATS in the menu and then go down to WEAPONS. The number there is how many skill points you have. You need 1000 skill points to reach hitman level.

After purchasing the RC Zero shop in San Fierro, look behind the counter to see Vice City branded action figures and other merchandise.

Was this guide helpful?
