Updated: 14 Feb 2022 4:13 pm
If you're looking for a PS4 or PS5 deal, you've arrived at the right place. Below, we're tracking all the best deals on PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 games and accessories across all the major retailers. That includes new releases, older favorites, and items like PS5-compatible SSDs to boost your storage capacity. If you don't find what you want you can always come back later, because we frequently update this page with all the best PS4 and PS5 deals.

Looking for the cream of the crop deals? The biggest discounts on the most sought-after items? Look no further.
A game console is only as good as its games. Thankfully, you don't have to look far to find discounts on PS4 and PS5 games these days. Here's a selection of all the best PlayStation game deals available now at a variety of retailers.
PS5 Games


PS4 Games










Need to refresh your PlayStation Store credit? You can stock up at Amazon using the links above.


Even though PS5s are still selling out within minutes of coming in stock, you'll find plenty of discounts on readily available PS5 games, including new ones.
And for PS4 owners, you can get the vast majority of the biggest games on the platform for well south of $59.99. For starters, there's the PlayStation Hits line of games that offers a wide variety of fantastic games for $19.99, including behemoths like Horizon Zero Dawn Complete Edition, God of War, Uncharted: Lost Legacy, Bloodborne, and on and on.
But in addition to that, retailers like Best Buy, Amazon, PlayStation Store, and GameStop offer weekly sales in which you'll find a revolving array of titles discounted for a limited time. We always keep the above list of deals up to date to make sure you can find the best games on sale at any given time. If you don't see something you like today, check back later in the week.

If your PS5 could use more storage (and, honestly, whose couldn't?), you can now install an SSD (provided it meets a heap of requirements). All of these SSDs meet the requirements, though it's worth noting you'll need to add a PS5-compatible heatsink to some of the ones listed above. We've noted whether the SSDs come with a heatsink or not. 
For my money, PS Plus is one of the best deals in all of gaming. Not only does it let you play your games online and store your saves in the cloud, but it also gets you access to free games each month. They're yours to keep and play for as long as you're a PlayStation Plus member. PS Plus members also get extra discounts during some of the regular sales on the PlayStation Store throughout the year. Finally, PS5 owners also get access to the PlayStation Plus Collection, a treasure trove of games that include of some of the best games of the PS4 generation. If you play PlayStation regularly, a PS Plus membership pays for itself in basically no time.
A new PlayStation 4 or PlayStation 5 generally only comes with just the console and a controller. To get the most out of your hardware, you'll want to consider picking up a few accessories. But as with the consoles themselves, most PS4 and PS5 accessories are not on sale right now. Even so, when we find worthy deals, here's where we'll put them. 


Some of the most useful accessories include extra DualShock 4 or DualSense controllers, PlayStation VR, and wireless headsets. The media remotes also have a special place in my heart, because controlling Netflix with a controller is a sub-par experience IMO. Even if you can't score a deal, you may want to pick up a headset or extra controller at list price. Chances are, you'll get your money's worth out of them.
If you own more than a small handful of games, you probably know that the PS4 and PS5's onboard storage can run out fast. That's especially true with massive space hogging titles like Red Dead Redemption 2 and Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War taking up absurdly large chunks of hard drive space. And if you're a PS Plus member who regularly downloads the free monthly games, you'll be out of space before you know it. No one likes juggling games on their hard drive, especially considering how slow the PSN can be.
Thankfully, it's incredibly easy to expand the onboard storage. Just plug in one of the discounted external hard drives above, format it in the settings menu, and you'll be able to keep more games at the ready. Note that you can't store PS5 games on an external hard drive. You can, however, play backwards-compatible PS4 games (which is to say, almost all PS4 games) from an external storage device.

PlayStation 5 is technically out, but you wouldn't know that by, like, actually looking for it. It's sold out everywhere nearly all the time. Some retailers announce when they're going to get new stock, but others just flip the "Sold Out" button to "Add to Cart" without warning. In any case, the links are listed above. Good luck.
For several years there, PS4 console deals were relatively easy to come by. Not so lately, thanks to both the pandemic and the release of PS5. While you may be able to find a new PS4 Slim or PS4 Pro at MSRP, we're not seeing many actual discounts at the moment. If that changes in the future, we'll drop them here.
And in fact, you'll often see (possibly shady) third-party retailers selling the consoles for above the suggested retail prices on sites like Amazon, Walmart, and eBay. So unless you really need a PS4, try to get them at MSRP or below. For reference, here are the standard retail prices for PS4 and PS5 models sold without pack-in games.
Speaking of PS5s, don't expect to find any discounts on PlayStation 5 hardware anytime soon. You're lucky if you can find it in stock anywhere for more than two minutes at a time. Once Sony can drive up the supply to meet the demand, you might start to see discounts. I wouldn't hold my breath for that to happen anytime soon.
Those are all the best PlayStation deals. Be sure also to check out our Best Xbox Deals and Best Nintendo Deals if you're a multi-console owner (or looking to become one).
Chris Reed is IGN's shopping and commerce editor. You can follow him on Twitter @_chrislreed.
