Updated: 13 Jan 2022 2:26 pm
The Nintendo Switch, Switch OLED, and its smaller, portable-only sibling the Nintendo Switch Lite, are among the fastest-selling consoles around. It's the only major console that can be played just as well on the road as in the home, and the stellar library includes Super Mario Odyssey, Mario Kart, Smash Bros, Animal Crossing, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Link's Awakening, Pokemon Sword and Shield, Ring Fit, and much, much more.

The platforms overwhelming popularity makes deals hard to find, not only on the consoles but games and accessories, too. And yet although the deals are hard to find, they're out there. Here is a list of consoles, video games, controllers, memory cards, and more that are on sale. If you're looking for a more in-depth roundup, then check out our selection on the absolute best video game deals in 2021.



You've got your console, now you need your games. Again, the Nintendo Switch library of titles is absolutely brimming with brilliant titles to get stuck into. From Smash Bros to Zelda and Mario Kart, or even our Game of the Year 2020 winner Hades. The possibilities are endless and you've got more than enough to start playing with.
It's also a pretty good feeling when you find a Nintendo Switch game on sale, as the titles can usually be very stubborn when it comes to its $60 price point. So, if you ever see a game you're after drop a few dollars, there is definitely a case to argue for buying it there and then, it might be the last time it's on sale for a long while. Here are all the best Switch game deals we could find at the moment, but if you're looking for something a little more expansive, make sure to check out all the best video game deals available.
Your Nintendo Switch will be a brilliant console, but if you're partial to installing quite a large number of games, you'll want to be bumping that memory up quite significantly. Thankfully, it's extremely easy and fairly cheap to do on the Switch, and you can achieve a memory expansion with any compatible MicroSD card. Here are all the best MicroSD deals we could find for the Nintendo Switch, if there are any currently up for grabs.
If you've got a Nintendo Switch, you're going to want to seriously consider a Nintendo Switch Online membership as well so you can access all of the key multiplayer features found in games like Animal Crossing, Smash Bros, Mario Kart, Splatoon, and many more.
There are plenty of benefits for picking up the pass, including free cloud storage, games, and a whole slew of other useful features. Online Play and Cloud Saves can be some of the biggest deals when it comes to Switch Online, as cloud saves can save your skin if you ever lose or have to get your console replaced for whatever reason. Plus, playing online with your friends or against new people is an experience all gamers should be a part of at some stage.
So here are all the best Nintendo Switch Subscription deals that we could find at the moment, make sure to check back again later for any updates, or follow @IGNDeals for instant deal updates in the future.
There may come a time of realisation while using your Switch, that you want to expand your experience just a little bit more. In come the various accessories you can pick up for Ni9ntendo Switch, including controllers, mics, Bluetooth adapters, power banks, and a whole lot more.

