This portion of the Cyberpunk 2077 guide explains how to unlock this side job and a complete I Fought the Law Walkthrough that highlights the choices and consequences which include a possible romance with River Ward.

It's possible that there are multiple ways to unlock this side job but below is the method we used.

When this Side Job unlocks you will get a call from Elizabeth Peralez. Accept the job and drive to the destination.


Once there, get in the back seat of the. You'll be greeted by Jefferson. The one running for mayor. Now it's clear why everything was so mysterious. Continue the conversation for details on the job.

Go into the braindance editor and look for clues. Remember you want to go into editing mode and then switch layers as needed. You're already in scanning mode so you just have to hover over the area little magnifying icon until the scan is complete. The clue clips will be highlighted on the editing bar as usual but below is where you can find all 6 of them:


Once you've seen all there is to see you'll be prompted to exit the braindance.

It's time to talk to Jefferson about your findings in regards to the murder. Regardless of what you choose you'll get to learn more about who was involved in the situation and who had access to what. At the end you get River Ward's contact information.

Hold down on the d-pad to bring up your contacts and call Ward so you can continue looking into the death of Rhyne. He'll ask you to meet him at the Chubby Buffalo.

Meet up with Detective Ward. He'll introduce you to his partner who will be leaving soon anyway. He'll asked who hired you, tell him if you want it has no impact on anything.


Follow River out to his car. There you'll talk about the case. Choose to meet with the informer or the CI. Once this choice is made you can skip the rest of the ride if you'd like.

Walk up to the informant. Regardless of what you open with he'll get spooked and flee the scene. Go chase him down. The door will lock behind him. You can pry it open if you have the strength (6 Strength Attribute). Otherwise you can turn around and exit the building and follow the market from there. Either way, you'll find him in the alley and Ward will have gotten to him before you.

Get answers however you see fit. Whether it's aggressive or kind, he'll give you the answers you need.

From here you can investigate the other lead or go to the club. The choice is yours.


Look for the vendors that give you prompts to actually ask them about Christine. Once your minimap has been updated with Christine's location, head to it. River Ward will already be there waiting for ya.


Ask questions to Christine to figure out what made Horvath kill. Once the chat is over follow River back to his car.

Tyger Claws are surrounding the car or pig wagon as they call it. River tells you he'll take care of this so say nothing when dialogue comes up and you'll avoid a confrontation completely. Talk smack and they'll attack.

The person at the front gate isn't letting you in (without a fight) so you'll need to find another way to enter the warehouse.

If you have a 6 Level Technical Ability you can get through the gate around the back left (next to the green dumpster).


Otherwise you'll want to continue walking around the left (if you see 2 billboards, one for Saving your corporate career and one for a peep show, you're heading in the right direction) you come to an opening:


Once you're in the area an Animal will be up ahead. You can use the nearby generator to distract him and go in for the Stealth kill/takedown. There are two dumpsters nearby (before the stairs and to the left of the stairs) that are perfect for dumping the body.



When you're ready, continue up the stairs and take the blue door on the right to actually get inside the warehouse.

There are Animals lurking all over this area and they won't all appear on your mini-map at once. Scan the room for dumpsters and crates to hide bodies in. If you're ever in a pinch you can exit the way you entered and use the 2 dumpsters outside. Keep in mind there are some up stairs as well. If your cover is blown River will come in and help you out.

To get into the club you need to take down all the Animals because they'll notice if you walk up and open the cargo container doors that lead to club.


You're going to need to go in aggressively. When you go down the stairs and turn right there's a door that can be pried open if you have the a Strength Attribute of 3. Inside is some helpful loot including grenades.

Optional: Incapacitate and interrogate the Animal boss, Shareef Nabi. This can be done by striking him down with a non-lethal weapon. Personally, we used the Cottonmouth Club we picked up during The Space Between mission since it's a non-lethal weapon.

Explore the entire area (because loot is always good) but once you're ready the office is up the stairs, through the door on the left. From there, enter the door ahead to the right of the Surprise Them poster.


Interact with the computer. Check the files to watch the camera footage.

Leave and then go to the Jeffersons to tell them your findings.

Was this guide helpful?
