Updated: 28 Feb 2022 8:07 pm
Update 2/28 12:00 pm PT: 
The Twisted Metal TV series will be heading to Peacock.

In a new press release, Peacock has announced it will air the upcoming live-action adaptation of the classic PlayStation series Twisted Metal. Anthony Mackie is set to star as an amnesiac, post-apocalyptic outsider tasked with delivering a mysterious package across the wasteland.
Additionally, Cobra Kai writer Michael Jonathan Smith will serve as showrunner, writer, as well as executive producer alongside Will Arnett and Marc Forman. 
The series is being described as a half-hour live-action comedy series combining high-octane action and comedy. The series is based on an original take by Deadpool and Zombieland writers Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick.
Anthony Mackie will star in PlayStation’s upcoming, live-action adaptation of Twisted Metal playing the amnesiac John Doe.
As reported by Deadline, Mackie will lead in the latest video game adaptation from PlayStation Productions. With a lead star on board, PlayStation is now planning to shop the series to potential buyers. 
The Twisted Metal TV series is being described as a “high-octane action-comedy” written by Deadpool writers Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick. Deadline reports the series will follow a “motor-mouthed outsider” who could earn a better life for himself but only after delivering a mysterious package through a post-apocalyptic wasteland.
In the video games, John Doe is an amnesiac who can’t remember anything about himself but is covered in tattoos that may hold the clue to his past.
Mackie is best known for playing Falcon in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. He starred in the Disney Plus series The Falcon and the Winter Soldier and will star in the next Captain America movie following the events of the series.
This is also a sign that PlayStation Productions — a division set up to take successful PlayStation video games and adapt them for film and television — is ramping up its efforts to translate notable games to screen. 
Other projects currently in the works include an Uncharted movie starring Tom Holland, The Last of Us TV show for HBO, and a Ghost of Tsushima movie.
Matt T.M. Kim is IGN's News Editor. You can reach him @lawoftd.
