Updated: 16 Sep 2021 3:13 pm
With each passing day we grow nearer to a world of readily-available Xbox Series X and Series S consoles, but if you're still using last-gen tech, don't sweat it. Yes, the Series X is a massive upgrade from the Xbox One, but you can still play pretty much every game on either system, although that's rapidly changing. To make life a little easier, we've included links to places you can expect to find an Xbox S or Xbox X when they are in stock. You can also find this week's best sales and deals on various Xbox games and Xbox accessories.

It's no secret that Game Pass is a huge, huge hit. Due to its wide variety of games and even more so now with Xbox's acquisition of Bethesda, Xbox owners can play tons of new games on release day while also revisiting older beloved titles. That's a win in my book.
New to Game Pass? You're in luck because Microsoft offers a 3-month Xbox Game Pass membership to members for just $1. Earlier this year, there was a loophole that allowed existing Game Pass Ultimate members to turn a 12-month EA Play subscription into  4-months of Game Pass Ultimate for only $29.99. Unfortunately, that loophole was closed back in May. As of now, a 12-month EA Play subscription will only convert into 2-months of Game Pass Ultimate. Luckily, there's a deal on Amazon that you can grab right now - 3-months of Game Pass Ultimate for 29.99 instead of $44.99.

If you're still in search of an Xbox Series X|S - check out the list below to see which retailers stock them. Lately, the Series S has been in stock for longer periods of time at places like the Microsoft Store and Walmart. Unfortunately, the same can't be said about the Series X. If you don't have time to refresh the Series X product pages every day, follow along with us on Twitter where myself and the team will notify you of Xbox X|S and PS5 drops.
Meanwhile, I'll be waiting patiently for the day when we can all just walk into a store and pick up current gen Xbox Series X or S.
When stock is available, here's where you'll be able to buy an Xbox Series X or Xbox Series S:


Another way you can secure an Xbox X is by purchasing a bundle from retailers such as GameStop and Best Buy. As opposed to only getting the console, retailers will bundle it with a couple games and sometimes a gift card or Game Pass membership. Not only is this a great way to avoid competing with scalpers or resellers, it's also a way to get a couple physical copies of games - especially if you're unsure about signing up for Game Pass. It's hard to tell what bundles are available ahead of the drops so follow along with us at IGN Deals on Twitter to get live updates of Xbox Series X drops when they happen.
If you're thinking of picking up a new game or two, you're in luck. There are quite a few Xbox One and Xbox X games on sale right now. We'll update this section every week to share the best Xbox game deals with you. Let me know in the comments if there's a certain title you're interested in - I'll keep my eye out for a good deal.









Have you been looking for a new controller or maybe a portable external hard drive for your Xbox? Below are some of the best deals and sale prices on Xbox One and Xbox Series X|S accessories this week. Please note, the following list contains deals and sales from various retailers ranging from Amazon to GameStop. I'll be updating this section weekly to bring you the best deals on Xbox accessories.

Christi is IGN's Social Commerce Editor tracking sales for @igndeals and writing about all things shopping. You can find her on Twitter @caliatownsend.
