Updated: 28 Feb 2022 9:48 pm
The latest batch of game consoles have not exactly been easy to find in stock. That has only recently changed, and only really for the Xbox Series S and Nintendo Switch OLED, both of which can often be found in stock at various retailers. But right now, for the first time, you can grab an Xbox Series S on sale for $249.99, a full $50 off the MSRP. The deal is live at Woot, and it's only available today for as long as supplies last. If you could use one, now's the time to grab it. This is the best Xbox Series S deal we've seen yet.

Woot is owned by Amazon, and Amazon Prime members get free shipping on the deal (you can sign up here). Otherwise, shipping is $6, which still puts it comfortably in "the best Xbox Series S deal we've ever seen" territory. 
The Xbox Series S is the digital-only model of the latest-generation console from Microsoft. It can run all the same games the Series X can run, but it does so at a lower resolution, making it a good choice for people who don't plan on upgrading to a 4K TV anytime soon. It also makes a good second console for anyone who might not have access to their main TV all the time (thanks, roommates/kids/etc.).
Being a digital-only console, the Series S lacks a disc drive, which means you can only play downloadable games on it. This is fine for many people, especially if you subscribe to Xbox Game Pass, which gets you access to a huge library of Xbox games, including all first-party titles on day one. That means you can play games like Halo Infinite and Forza Horizon 5, along with tons of indies and third-party titles like The Sims 4 and Back 4 Blood (and other games, potentially even ones without the number four in the title).
This is by far the best deal we've seen yet on a new-gen console. In fact, it's one of the only deals we've seen yet. So if you want it, grab it. It's not likely to stick around for long.
You can check out our comprehensive Xbox Series S review for more information.

Chris Reed is a deals expert and commerce editor for IGN. You can follow him on Twitter @_chrislreed.

