Mjolnir Armor Lockers hold multiplayer cosmetics that you can only unlock in Halo Infinite's campaign. The cosmetics include armor, emblems, nameplates, weapon charms, and plenty more. Find all of the multiplayer armor lockers in Halo Infinite with this handy checklist guide. 

Keep in mind that capturing FOBs reveals the Mjolnir Armor Lockers nearby, but won't always show all Armor Lockers. There are 34 Armor Lockers to find around Zeta Halo.

Looking for a specific Mjolnir Armor Locker location? Click the links below to jump to...

The following Mjolnir Armor Lockers in Halo Infinite can be found in the southwest sector. You'll be able to explore this zone after completing the Recovery mission.


The Banished Deception Warthog Coating is at the very far edge of this zone, and it takes a while to get there. In general, it's southeast of Ransom Keep. Make sure you climb the mountains on the east side, not the west.

Trek through the mountains and you'll come across the metal hexagons. Traversing this area can be risky, so make sure to set the Waypoint to this location on your map. When you get close to the hexagons, you will have to jump across the open area.

You'll make it, but it's too far to grapple due to the height of the hexagons. So just stand near the edge on one side, and jump high onto the other side. You will then be able to scoot a bit south and climb up to the top of the area. There, you'll see the Mjolnir Armor Locker blinking. There will be a few enemies in the area for you to take out.



The Midnight Griffin MKVII Armor Coating is inside the center of The Tower. Once you reach the interior, go all the way to the left/southwest area. Climb down and underneath the bridge/walkways like you are walking to the edge of the cliffside. Jump down to where the red lights are showing from the legs of The Tower area, and you will see it on the cliff there.



The Olympic Stance is slightly southeast of where Mission 4 begins (just after you get your Mongoose). It's just further beyond the west of the Ransom Keep outpost. You have to climb a mountain and get to the top. There are a few enemies to defeat on that spot, and the Mjolnir Armor Locker will be there, too.



The Scorpion Horvath MKVII Armor Coating marker will appear on your map after taking over FOB Foxtrot. It's northwest of the FOB at the edge of the island behind a rocky mountain. Defeat some enemies as you walk around the mountain area and you will see it.



The Windfall Armor Emblem is almost across from where you found the Scorpion Horvath MKVII Armor Coating Mjolnir Armor Locker. Climb down the mountain crevice and you will see it in the stream. This one unlocks when you take over the FOB Foxtrot as well.


The following Mjolnir Armor Lockers in Halo Infinite can be found in the northwest and central sectors. You'll be able to explore these zones after completing the Excavation and Pelican Down missions, respectively.


The Banished Armor Emblem will appear on the map after you take over FOB Bravo. Go directly East of FOB Bravo and climb on the mountain ridge at the edge of the area. Then, drop down onto the metal hexagons and you will see it around some rubble.



The Banished Deception MKVII Armor Coating is slightly northwest of FOB Bravo. Use your grappling hook to climb up high above the rocky mountains. Keep scaling the rocks to your west and you will see it down below in a clearing with a few smaller enemies.



The Banished Deception Ridgeback Coating is near FOB Echo. Take over FOB Echo, and then this Armor Locker will unlock. It's south of Echo up a small hill.



You can receive the Banished Nameplate at the end of Mission 5. It's just to the west within the compound area.



You can obtain the Banished Weapon Charm close to the Forge of Teash. Climb over the hills and mountain passes from FOB Charlie. You will see the Armor Locker sitting behind a rock in the open grassy area.



The Banished Weapon Emblem is north of Bluebell Squad. This armor locker is hidden by a waterfall. You will have to climb the rocky mountain area and then drop down to where the waterfall is.



The Blood Shadow MKVII Armor Coating is somewhat close to FOB Delta. This is almost on top of the mountain directly north of that area. It's up on a ledge in a wide-open hill.



The Crimson Vettel MKVII Armor Coating is directly north of FOB Alpha. You will see the Armor Locker past some rocky cliffs by a stream. It's on a small island in the middle of a shallow lake area near a large Artifact. 



Dogfight Makovich MKVII Armor Coating is on the first sector just northeast of FOB Charlie. From the base, go down the mountain and cross the path. Climb slightly on the side up the other mountain and you will see it on the ridge.



You should see the Infinity Nameplate marker pop up after taking over FOB Charlie. This Mjolnir Armor Locker is almost directly south just through the rocky mountain area.



The Obelisk Stone MKVII Armor Coating can be found at the end of Mission 3, Outpost Tremonius. It is on the cliffside to the northwest before you leave in the ship. As such, after the mission wraps, step off the ship and go out to the left side/northwest side of the ship. You'll see it on the cliff at the base of a large standing light post.



You'll see a marker for the Shadow Sorel MKVII Armor Coating after taking over FOB Delta. Go north and west to find the Mjolnir Armor Locker at the base of the mountain.



The Warmaster's Prize Bulldog Coating is directly southwest of the Banished Weapon Emblem armor locker. It's underneath a small bridge in a stream.



The Warmaster's Prize SPNKr Coating is right next to FOB Alpha. Once you take over the FOB, look north and you will see a cave with red lights in it. Walk in there to find this Mjolnir Armor Locker. 



The Wild Kovan MKVII Armor Coating is slightly north of FOB Delta. You will find this at the top of the peak just west of the nearby Squad.



The Warmaster's Prize Battle Rifle Coating is in the central sector where the Pelican Down mission takes place (it's the only Mjolnir Armor Locker that you'll find on this island). Once you complete the mission, head back to the southwest AA Gun Battery and you will find it near the base. 


The following Mjolnir Armor Lockers in Halo Infinite can be found in the southeast sector. You'll be able to explore this zone after completing the Sequence mission.


The Banished Deception Gungoose Coating is east of FOB Juliet. From the base, head straight to the peak of the mountain. 



The Banished Deception Mongoose Coating appears marked on your map once you take over FOB Hotel. This Mjolnir Armor Locker is just southwest of the base. Follow the road and then you will see a mountain pass. This Mjolnir Armor Locker is on the eastern side of that. There's a little path that you can follow up the rocks to get to it mid-way to the top.



The Banished Deception Rockethog Coating is directly southeast of FOB Juliet. You will find it in a swampy area. Be careful since there are two powerful enemies nearby.



The Banished Deception Scorpion Coating is slightly northeast of FOB Kilo. However, this Mjolnir Armor Locker does appear after you take over FOB Lima. It's near the tall metal hexagons, so it'll take a bit of effort when climbing the mountain to them.



The Dogfight Makovich Wasp Coating is the most challening Mjolnir Armor Locker to find. Technically, the easiest way will be to find a Banshee and fly to the spot. Otherwise, it will be a tricky and time-consuming hike. Still, there are Banshees in the area, so we highly recommend shooting at one (they will shoot at you first!) to lure it to your position. Once it's close enough, you can jump and hijack it.

Likewise, this is the only Mjolnir Armor Locker that will not show up on your map after taking over any base. Unlike all the other collectibles in this category, you have to just go to the location and find it.

In any case, to get to this one on on foot, go back to where you got the Griffin Armor Emblem Armor Locker, which is up the winding path just southeast of FOB Kilo. Starting at the Beacon nearby and heading northeast, loop around the pathway that goes up by the metal hexagons. Go past the previous Armor Locker and go to the very edge of the mountain.

You're genuinely going to fall off the edge to get this one. You have to look around and find the edge of the hexagons, so that when you stand right on the edge, you can see platforms still beneath you. Next, carefully fall down onto each platform as you see them. You’ll do this a few times until you get to the very bottom of the flat hexagons.

Then, you will need to carefully walk on them around the edges to get to the eastern side (the map will show that it’s fully flat, but it’s not as there’s a big opening). You'll see the Mjolnir Armor Locker directly across from the west side as you get to the bottom, though it may be hard to see at first, so just look for other green UNSC flashing items. Once you work your way over to them (or flying in a banshee to make it much easier!), use your grapple hook to climb up to that platform area.



The Dogtags Weapon Charm is south of FOB November. Go directly south across the lake and slightly to the east. You will see the Mjolnir Armor Locker underneath the large bridge. Be careful of enemies that'll snipe you.



The Griffin Armor Emblem is southeast of FOB Kilo. Go back to the Beacon just southeast of the base. Loop around the pathway that goes up by the metal hexagons to the north of the Beacon itself, and you will go between the mountain. It's slightly hidden and not easily viewed on the map, but this will be your easiest route to get above the haxagons and to the Mjolnir Armor Locker. Be aware of challenging enemies that you'll encounter.



The Griffin Nameplate is north of FOB November. This will appear once you take over the base. Follow the path as it loops around going north and defeat some enemies to get up to the top of the mountain. Then, hop down off the ledge onto the metal hexagons and walk to the west to find it on the cliff side. You'll come across an Artifact on your way there. 



The Griffin Weapon Emblem shows up after you take over FOB Kilo (it's southeast of the base). You have to carefully climb up onto the metal hexagons, and then drop down to a lower hexagon area where the Mjonir Armor Locker is, on the very edge of the cliff. Beware of enemy attacks in the area as well. 



The Infinity Armor Emblem is north of FOB Hotel. The best route is to begin at FOB Hotel and go northwest. However, there is a challenging, high-value target along the route. If you don't want to attack it, then you'll need to climb above the small ridge and sneak past it. Otherwise, once the target sees you, you'll be in for a fight.

In any case, you'll reach a clearing with a swamp. The Mjolnir Armor Locker will be blinking green in the middle of it, next to a broken down ship. Enemies will be in the area, too, so be prepared.



The Warmaster's Prize Assault Rifle Coating appears once you take over FOB Juliet. Just go north at the top of the hexagon-metal section.



The Warmaster's Prize Commando Rifle Coating is directly southeast of FOB Lima. You'll see it at an open area near the cliffside. Still, there's a good chance that you'll just get this after you complete the campaign.



The Windfall Nameplate is straight east of FOB Juliet. Go up the mountain and you'll see it halfway along the path. Keep an eye out for snipers.


Was this guide helpful?
