Looking for all 45 Spartan Cores in Halo Infinite? This guide includes every Spartan Core location with map screenshots, a handy checklist, and videos for each island landmass. Spartan Cores are used to upgrade Master Chief's equipment, bolstering the capabilities of tools like the Grappleshot, Thruster, and more.

Looking for a specific Spartan Core location? Click the links below to jump to...

The following Spartan Cores in Halo Infinite can be found in the southwest sector, the first island landmass you really get to explore. There are eight Spartan Cores to collect here.


This Spartan Core can be found at The Tower after fighting your way to turn on the grav lift. Use your radar and you should see the first of two Spartan Cores in a cargo container (there's also an M41 SPNKR Rocket Launcher inside). If you are facing the grav lift from the main entrance, it should be on your right just past the captured UNSC soldiers. 



This Spartan Core can be claimed after entering The Tower and grabbing the Threat Sensor. Clear the first two floors of enemies. After reaching the third floor, exit the ramp and follow the path to the right. You'll find the second Spartan Core in the second larger alcove on your left next to a yellow crate and an MA40 AR.



For this Spartan Core, fast Travel to Recovery (this is the yellow triangle) near The Tower mission. Head roughly 460 meters northeast to find the Spartan Core on one of the hexagon-shaped tiles. 



For this Spartan Core, head back to Recovery (the yellow triangle mission point). But, this time go roughly 180 meters south across the chasm. You'll find an enemy encampment and drop pods. Clear out the enemies and claim the Spartan Core in the center of the camp. 



You can get this Spartan Core south of FOB Foxtrot in the wreckage of a UNSC ship. Activate your pulse to find the Spartan Core amongst the wreckage. 



To get this Spartan Core, enter Ransom Keep from the main entrance (the one with the guard towers and barricades) and work your way to the back of the base. Past the structure with the moving crane above, take the final left before reaching the narrow path between two rock faces. Then, follow the path up the ramp and you should see the crate on your right. It's in front of a rack with two larger Plasma Coils and machine parts. 



This Spartan Core is roughly 380 meters east of Ransom Keep. Follow the path up the hill and fight through the enemy encampment and reinforcements. The Spartan Core is on the edge overlooking the cliff next to a yellow crate and a Hydra. 



To obtain this Spartan Core, go west of the Carerra Squad rescue point toward the cliff. Look down the gorge below. You'll see a small UNSC weapons camp along with the Spartan Core, an S7 Sniper, and an M41 SPNKR Rocket Launcher.


The following Spartan Cores in Halo Infinite can be found in the northwest sector of Zeta Halo. You'll be able to explore this zone after completing the Recovery mission. There are 14 Spartan Cores in this larger area and 3 Spartan Cores around Outpost Tremonius. The Spartan Cores at Outpost Tremonius do not count toward the Area Collectible total.


This is technically the first Spartan Core that you can find in Halo Infinite's campaign. It will be directly in front of you after exiting the elevator when you start Mission 3: Outpost Tremonius.

To clarify, the reason why we have it listed in this section is because Master Chief will visit this area for this particular mission before heading off to the southeastern island (Recovery).



The next Spartan Core in Outpost Tremonius. Immediately turn right once you can leave the building and follow the right side of the ship. You'll see the crate next to a single dead tree, ship debris, and a yellow crate with an MA40 AR. 



For the last Spartan Core in Outpost Tremonius, return to the ship's exit point and fight your way through the enemies in the encampment (if you haven't already). The Spartan Core is behind the structure on the west side of the camp. It's in a small open Banished weapons crate with an assortment of weapons such, as the M41 SPNKR.



This Spartan Core is south of Cobra Squad in a hill landmarked by three tall Forerunner pillars. This one is a bit tricky as you will have to enter the Forerunner structure that's hidden in the hill to pick up the Spartan Core.

Travel to the hill. You can see it on the TacMap. Kill any Banished in the area and stand in the center of the hill. Walk east and you should cross a rocky side of the hill. Turn around when you drop down (you should see a Propaganda Tower close by) to find a cave opening in the hill marked with green lights. It'll illuminate green at night, though the light is apparent in daytime too. Enter the tunnel and follow it all the way down. Take a right to enter a Forerunner weapon vault that was repurposed by a Marine as a base. Here you'll find the Spartan Core.



To get this Spartan Core, you're going to need to go west of FOB Alpha up the mountain. You can use your Grappleshot to scale the mountain or a vehicle. If you've unlocked the Wasp, be careful on your approach. You'll run into enemies. There are tons of Brutes and other Banished ready to challenge you for this Spartan Core. After you've cleared them out you can spot this Spartan Core near a VK78 Commando at the base of a hill on the right leading up to the Forerunner structure atop the mountain.


 There are two ways to get to this Spartan Core locked behind a door in a Banished encampment. Head to FOB Alpha and grab any vehicle. Make your way southeast toward a Banished encampment with structures and turrets. They're heavily armed, so be ready for a fight if you want to fight your way through. It might be worth bringing some Marines with you. 

Shortcut: If you walk from FOB Alpha southeast toward this encampment, you can drop down from the cliffside to a hill that overlooks the encampment. On this hill is a shortcut that leads to the tunnel you'll need to go through to get to this Spartan Core. 


If you drop down here, be ready to fight a Brute and take out an automated turret. It's best if you drop some grenades down the hole first.

However, if you want to go in fighting, proceed to the Banished encampment (several automated turrets, Grunts, and Banished await you). 


If you didn't take the shortcut, enter the Banished building (shown above) that's open after eliminating the outside enemies (there's an invisible Elite waiting for you with an Energy Sword if he didn't emerge during the fighting) and you'll find a hole in the floor at the back of the building. 

There are cords going into it. Drop in and follow the tunnel underneath. 


Be careful, there's another Banished turret, a Brute, and two Grunts waiting for you down there. 


After all enemies are down take the next tunnel and you'll reach a grav lift. Ride it up and clear the next room of Elites and Jackals. The Spartan Core is to the right of the door controls for the structure you're currently in. 



For this particular Spartan Core, you'll fight your way through the Armory of Reckoning Banished Facility. You will find the Spartan Core directly to the right of the Ammo Printer in the rectangular room prior to reaching the grav lift.

If you haven't cleared out this base yet, then you may need to use your scan to find the power cell controlling the forcefield that's blocking access to this tunnel. The tunnel itself is located near the base's southeastern gate. If you enter from this gate, the tunnel and power cell powering the forcefield should be on your right just past a small structure with weapons and ammo refill stations. 



You can grab this southwestern Excavation Site Spartan Core a few ways. First, you can head to the center of the Excavation Site. Climb to the top of the drill. Look southwest and you should see a small group of trees on a hill overlooking the dig site. Jump and grapple up the cliffside to find the first Spartan Core in this area.

Alternatively, you can take the road around the Excavation Site (or fly or climb over the mountains surrounding the site) and approach the Spartan Core on the tree-spotted cliff that way. 




This Spartan Core is on the southeast side of the Excavation Site arena. You should see a small Banished bunker almost against the carved out cliffside wall, not far away from the drill. The correct bunker should have a Ghost inside. 


If you scan, you should see the outline of the Spartan Core above you on a second floor. Use the Grappleshot to get to the higher level of the room and claim it.


This Spartan Core is a little ways northeast of FOB Bravo in a Forerunner structure. You can see the structure from the FOB.


When you get to the hill you'll only see a locked red door carved into the southern side of the hill (seen in the image above). Upon scanning you'll see a switch to open the door, but it's inside. 


You're going to have to enter through a back entrance. As always, it's got Banished waiting for you.

From the locked door, follow the dirt path that's lined with the red Banished lights further east until you reach the end. On your left, you should see an open door in the side of the hill. 


Clear out the Banished and you will find the Spartan Core in the final room on a raised platform.


To the left of the Spartan Core, you should see the door controls. This allows you to exit via that locked red door that you saw earlier. 



For this Spartan Core, return to FOB Bravo if you haven't cleared the Horn of Abolition point of interest yet. Then, head southeast to the Horn of Abolition. Clear the lockdown and destroy the tower's power cells if you haven't done so already.

If you have cleared the Horn of Abolition, simply fast travel to that location. The Spartan Core should be just southeast of the Banished facility. From the southern gate, you should see a collapsed structure ahead with the Spartan Core visible through a broken door. Grappleshot to the roof and enter through the opening to find it.



The Spartan Core is in the Forge of Teash. Head inside one of the buildings to find a repair bay full of Choppers. Go up the ramp in the center to find the Spartan Core. 



This Spartan Core is on the east side of Redoubt of Sundering. This is easier to pick up if you've already cleared the Banished facility. If you go straight to the center of the facility then walk toward the east wall (don't forget, your radar has an arrow that always points north!), you can find the Kinetic and Plasma ammo crates. Just by them in a corner made up of Banished boxes is the Spartan Core. This is outside, not in any of the buildings.



This Spartan Core is northeast of FOB Echo. You should come across a bunch of destroyed drop pods. The Spartan Core is inside an escape pod. 



This Spartan Core is quite a ways west of FOB Echo, north of High-Value Target Ik 'Novus. If you have access to a flying vehicle, you can simply fly over the mountain to the Forerunner tower housing the Spartan Core. If not, you can either grapple up the mountainside or drive a vehicle following the path heading northwest that will take you toward Bluebell Squad.

Once you arrive at the tower, kill any enemies nearby and enter the structure on its south side to find the Spartan Core resting in the corner with an already dead Brute and an assortment of weapons.



The Spartan Core can be found west of the large Forerunner structure platform Tap to Reveal that's in the valley near FOB Delta. Head west from the center of the metal platform to find the Spartan Core next to a crashed Pelican.


This is the southernmost Spartan Core you can find. You can get it two ways. The fastest way is if you have access to a Banshee or Wasp, just fly (or carefully climb down with the Grappleshot) the southern point of this landmass, which is just northwest from the West AA cannon on the other island across the way.


As you go down you'll see this opening in the side of the hexagonal wall with the Spartan Core hanging out on the edge. You'll have to fight a Brute and Grunts if you hang around too long.


If you want to go the more action-packed way, go southeast of FOB Delta or south of the Forerunner platform in this valley and you'll find a cave. It's especially easy to see this at night. There's a light set up outside, teal glowing mushrooms, and red lights in the cave. 


Enter, and you'll find yourself in long tunnel. Keep going until you finally reach a large cave filled with pillars and Banished. Clear the room and walk to the back of the cave toward the door. Pass through, kill the Brute and Grunts, then you can grab this Spartan Core and the sniper if you want it.


There are 5 Spartan Cores on the Pelican Down island. This landmass is also called Graveyards. 


This Spartan Core is found at the East AA Gun installation. Exit the cave with the grav lift controls and head right. Just past the hill, you should see a small illuminated tunnel with the Spartan Core.



You can find this Spartan Core north of the North AA Gun Installation. From the grav lift controls, head north to reach a lone Banished building. Go straight through the building to find the Spartan Core in a corner along with a VK78 Commando. 



This Spartan Core is just southwest of the North AA Gun installation. From the grav lift, head southwest along the mountain. You can either follow the path with a vehicle if you have one. If not, you can grapple up the side of the structures and other rock faces until the path levels out. Afterward, simply grapple up to the top of the rock face to find the Spartan Core next to a Mongoose.

As an aside, if this Spartan Core isn't showing up on your map, you may need to destroy the nearby Propaganda Tower. It's located to just west of this Spartan Core.



You can get this Spartan Core near where you started the Pelican Down mission on the crashed wing of a UNSC ship just southeast of the Pelican Down diamond map marker. Hop up on the broken ship's wing and you should see the Spartan Core is next to a VK78 Commando and a grenade box.



Make your way to the West AA gun's elevator. Before riding the elevator up to the actual West AA gun, look to the left of the elevator to find the Spartan Core.


The 15 following Spartan Cores in Halo Infinite can be found in the southeast sector. You'll be able to explore this zone after completing the Sequence mission.


Walk directly north of FOB Lima and you'll see openings in the hexagonal cliffside. Keep walking toward it and you'll see the Spartan Core on top of a hexagonal platform. You'll need to hop up a few pillars or grapple up. Be careful when grabbing this Spartan Core as there are plenty of Banished in this hexagonal cave space.



This Spartan Core is northeast of FOB November. Follow the path around the cliff's edge. The Spartan Core will be on a grouping of hexagonal tiles near two raised stone pillars.



This Spartan Core is southeast of FOB November. Go past the lake and up the hill. You should see a short path to the left of the bridge. There, you'll find an enemy drop pod, the Spartan Core, and a Warthog.



You can get this Spartan Core after lowering all of the barriers inside Riven Gate. Go to the grav cannons overlooking the base that had one of the gate controls. You can either fly the Banshee or take the grav cannon across the gap into the bunker that had the final switch. Directly to the right of the switch, you should see the Spartan Core in the corner of the next tunnel heading out of the bunker.



This Spartan Core isn't at Riven Gate, but it's a good point of reference and the most convenient fast travel point to get to the Spartan Core. Head northeast from Riven Gate to the canyon that's filled with that large line of structures buzzing with electricity. You can spot this Spartan Core near many defeated Banished below the first of the many triangular structures.

If you've completed Riven Gate you can fast travel to that point, turn north, and start walking to get to the Spartan Core quickly.



This Spartan Core is at the Northern Beacon on the fourth island (Sequence). Follow the side ramp up to the floor above the main entrance. The Spartan Core is near a Banished weapon rack next to an MA40 AR.



For this Spartan Core, fast travel to the North Beacon. Look southeast, you should see a wall of hexagonal terrain. Grappleshot over the gap (or take the bridge) and head into the cave opening here: 


You'll find the Spartan Core along with other UNSC supplies. 



This Spartan Core is in the mountain to the southeast of the North Beacon and can be accessed from two different areas.  For the first, you can go toward the center of the mountain area. It'll be faster if you fly over, but you might run into a Banshee.

 This Spartan Core is not on top of the mountain, but under it. You'll find that you're close to one of the two entrances to the mountain when you spot the Forerunner Artifact and Banished equipment. Follow the gravel and dirt path east around the Banished equipment by this Artifact You should eventually see this gaping opening in the mountain marked by a red light:


Drop down slowly. There are quite a few Banished down there, particularly just below the entry point shown in the screenshot above. There's a Plasma cannon mounted there too.

Once the area is safe you can grab the Spartan Core from its spot near the toppled Forerunner Artifact.

Alternatively, you can enter this cave at on the north side of the mountain at the base. There's a cave at the end of the north road of the mountain that's carved into the map. Simply follow the road and you'll eventually come across some Jackals, Grunts, and this cave opening.



Head to the bridge connecting Island 3 (Pelican Down) and Island 4 (Sequence). While you're at the shore of "Sequence Island," head a little northeast following the path until you come across a large pile of ship debris. 

Check the area to find the Spartan Core against the western wall of the destroyed ship. If you need a fast travel point to reach the area quicker, the closest one is FOB Juliet. You can follow the path northwest.



This Spartan Core can be found after saving Fortune Squad. You can either follow the path heading west that loops around your current location or jump down to the southwest. You'll find a tunnel at the base of this area. Go through the tunnel, clearing out enemies along the way, until you reach a cavernous chamber. The Spartan core will be on your left among a few Grunts.

Alternatively, you can head west of FOB Hotel to find a separate tunnel entrance carved into the hexagonal material mountainside. Again, follow the path normally while clearing enemies. From this entrance, the Spartan Core will be on the elevated rocks on the opposite side of the room near the other tunnel.


By far our favorite solution, though, is to follow the hexagonal tiles on the northern side of the cliff after saving Fortune Squad. You can pick up an M41 SPNKR Rocket Launcher resting on a yellow crate. Then, drop into the small tunnel entrance opposite that to find the Spartan Core on the higher elevated rocks to the left.



Go to the Southwest Beacon. The Spartan Core is in front of a large boulder to the southwest with a few UNSC weapons and a possible upside-down Warthog. 



This Spartan Core is on the southern side of the bunker near the grav cannon that has the controls for raising the silo. It will be in a small container to the left of the southern entrance. 



Head roughly west of FOB Juliet until you reach a cliff. Look down below to see a patch of hexagonal tiles. Jump down and look north to find an opening on the mountainside and a blue door. Enter it to find the Spartan Core and an assortment of UNSC weapons.



This Spartan Core is a long trek from FOB Kilo. From this base, go east to reach one of the highest mountains on Halo Infinite's campaign map. The peak is overlooking the Command Spire from where you first arrived on Island 4 (Sequence). 

Follow any of the paths that take you uphill from FOB Kilo until you reach the base of the hexagonal tile mountain. Afterward, Grappleshot to the top and grab the Spartan Core on the edge of one the cliffs.


However, if you have access to a Banshee or Wasp, you can also fast travel to FOB Lima and fly up the highest peak to the northwest. The peak with the Spartan Core is just north of the High-Value Target Barroth.


The 45th and final Spartan Core you can find in Halo Infinite (if you followed this guide) is near the Southeast Beacon. It's on the ground behind the beacon itself.


Was this guide helpful?
