This Grand Theft Auto: Vice City cheats and secrets guide details everything you need to know about GTA Vice City cheats, including how to enter and activate them. It also includes the best GTA Vice City cheats available, and a complete list of all cheats that appear in GTA Vice City. There are nearly 60 cheats and secrets available in GTA Vice City, and these cheats can all be used and activated across every platform, including PS5, PS4, PS3, PS2, Xbox Series S|X, Xbox One, Xbox 360, Nintendo Switch, and PC. This guide includes an update for the GTA: The Trilogy - Definitive Edition release for Xbox, PC, Switch, and PS5. 

Looking for a particular cheat code in GTA Vice City? Click the links below to jump to...

Also check out...

In order to enter and activate cheat codes in GTA Vice City, you must first select the cheat code you are looking to enter. With almost 100 cheats available on offer, you'll find cheats that range from infinite ammo, disabling your wanted level, infinite health, item and vehicle spawns, as well as plenty more.

Once you have selected your desired cheat code, simply type the phrase or press the button combinations on your controller while playing the game. These will need to be added in a consecutive manner and rather quickly, if you're too slow, you'll need to re-enter the cheat code.

You will know if the cheat is successful by looking for a pop-up that will appear in the top corner of your screen, which will indicate that the cheat is now active in-game.

The lists below show all of Vice City cheat codes, just scroll to the console you are playing on. Note that below this section are in-depth explanations and more for each individual cheat code.

The following GTA Vice City cheat codes are some of the most useful and popular cheats in the game - not to mention the most fun. Here is a list of the best GTA Vice City cheat codes:

You will receive all level one weapons.

You will receive all level two weapons.

You will receive all level three weapons.

Entering this cheat will lower your wanted level to zero. 

Entering this cheat will raise your wanted level by two stars.

A Rhino Tank will spawn.

The weather will be changed to sunny.

The weather will be changed to rainy.

Cars will have big wheels.

Pedestrians will carry weapons.

Below is a complete list of all Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (GTA VC) cheat codes that are available across all platforms, whether it be PS5, PS4, PS3, Xbox Series X|S, XB1, Xbox 360, PC, or Nintendo Switch. These cheat codes can be entered with a keyboard or an Xbox, PlayStation, or Nintendo Switch controller at any time during gameplay.

Looking for a particular type of cheat code? Click the links below to jump to...

Grand Theft Auto: Vice City has several cheats that can improve Tommy's arsenal, increase his overall health, and add some much-needed extra money to his account. Here's a complete list of the weapon, health, and money cheat codes:

You will receive all level one weapons.

You will receive all level two weapons.

You will receive all level three weapons.

You'll receive full health upon entering this cheat code.

You'll receive full Body Armor upon entering this cheat code.

Watch as Vice City turns into a chaos-filled playground as both physics and internal logic all go straight out the window. So whether you're looking for NPC manipulation, explosive vehicles, or something else, here is a complete list of all gameplay cheat codes:

Cars will gain the ability to drive on water. This cheat is helpful when going after hidden packages in the water.

Handle vehicles better when behind the wheel. 

Entering this cheat will kill your character instantly and will result in your outfit being reset.

All vehicles will fly in the air. Press UP while you accelerate to make the car hover off of the ground.

Entering this cheat will lower your wanted level to zero. 

Entering this cheat will raise your wanted level by two stars.

All cars within the Will spawn the following weapons: 

Pedestrians will riot and attack each other.

Pedestrians will attack you!

Pedestrians will carry weapons.

Female Pedestrians will carry weapons.

Female Pedestrians will follow you.

Some of the most useful cheats in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City allow Tommy to spawn vehicles. Here is a complete list of all spawn cheats that are available in GTA Vice City.

A Bloodring Banger will spawn.

A Bloodring Racer will spawn.

A Caddy will spawn.

A Hotring Racer 1 will spawn.

A Hotring Racer 2 will spawn.

A Love Fist Limo will spawn.

A Rhino Tank will spawn.

Romero's Hearse will spawn.

A Sabre Turbo will spawn.

A Trashmaster will spawn.

A plane will spawn.

A Hunter will spawn.

To make Tommy look like another character, enter one of the cheats listed below during gameplay.

Tommy will change into a random outfit.

Tommy's character model will be skinny.

Tommy's character model will be fat.

Tommy will smoke a cigarette.

Tommy will be transformed into Candy Suxxx.

Tommy will be transformed into Hilary King.

Tommy will be transformed into Ken Rosenberg.

Tommy will be transformed into Lance Vance.

Tommy will be transformed into a Love Fist member.

Tommy will be transformed into a Love Fist member.

Mercedes will be transformed into Mercedes Cortez.

Tommy will be transformed into Phil Cassady.

Tommy will be transformed into Ricardo Diaz.

Tommy will be transformed into Sonny Forelli.

From the dark and stormy weather to the sunny days of Vice City, here's a list of all-weather and time cheat codes in Vice City.

The weather will be changed to sunny.

The weather will be changed to rainy.

The weather will be changed to foggy.

The weather will be changed to overcast.

The world will be changed to slow motion.

Everything in the world will be in fast motion.

Watch as the in-game clock speeds up.

Whether it's increased traffic, turning vehicles a certain color, or one of the plenty of codes that can be utilized when getting behind the wheel, here's a complete list of all traffic, vehicle, boat, plane, and motorcycle cheat codes.

Traffic will be faster, making it more difficult to carjack vehicles.

All vehicles will be turned black.

All vehicles will be turned pink.

All traffic lights will be green.

Cars will be invisible.

Cars will have big wheels.

Listed below is a complete list of how to achieve 100% Completion, along with a list of Perks and Bonuses that can be unlocked by completing a series of missions and tasks.

To get maximum health of 150, get up to level 10 in the Pizza Boy vehicle mission.

To get infinite sprint, complete Level 12 of the ambulance mission. Tommy will be able to sprint indefinitely without getting winded.

Once you have dropped off 100 people during Taxi missions, you will unlock Boost, which allows you to jump using the L3 button whenever you're in a taxi.

This trick worked in GTA III as well. Drive-up next to a hooker and wait. If you're driving a swank enough car, she'll start talking to you. Eventually, she'll get into the car. At this point, drive to a quiet spot and let the magic happen. The car will start rocking, and your "health" will grow from 100 to 125. Your pocketbook will take a hit though. This health-up only works until the next time you die.

Go to the hotels save point. When the game asks you if you want to save, select a game and click it. When the "Overwrite?" message appears, select "No", and return to the game.  You will have full health.

Was this guide helpful?
